# Incremental Constrained Clustering by Minimal Weighted Modification

This repository contains the experimental setup, data, and plots used in the CP'23 contribution
titled "Incremental Constrained Clustering by Minimal Weighted Modification" (paper **38**).

## Repo structure

- `src`: contains the source code of IAC.
- `experiments`: contains the experimental results produced by the authors and used in the paper.
    - `comparison`: results for the comparison of IAC with other constrained clustering methods.
    - `params`: results of sensitivity analysis for the parameters of IAC (anchor generation rate, generalization scope)
    - `relaxing`: results of evaluating the relaxation of IAC with other methods using soft constraints.
    - `scaling`: results of runtime analysis of the CP model for modification in regard of the number and type of constraints.
    - `treecut`: results of the use case on satellite image time series.
    - `plots`: visualizations of the results of every experiment.

Each experiment directory contains subdirectories for each of the datasets tested. These subdirectories contain :
- `raw`: raw results for each experimental run, identified by its number : partitions, constraints and runtimes.
- `compiled`: compilation of raw results and evaluation according to each metric used in the evaluation.

Finally, folders `clustering-data-v1-1.1.0` and `datasets` contain the datasets used in the experiments,
pulled from the `clustering-benchmarks` library except for `Letters` which comes directly from the UCI repository. 
Folder `use case` contains all the data pertaining to the experiment on tree cut SITS presented in Section 4.3 of the paper (results in directory `treecut`).

## Technical details

Plots are HTML files generated by Plotly, they are interactive and thus offer a better view on our results.

Initial partitions were created through KMeans clustering from `scikit-learn`, with `n_clusters` set to the number of clusters in the ground truth partition,
and `random_state` set to 9 for reproducibility.

The experiments can be reproduced by running the main script, opening a CLI menu to choose an experiment.
The results will be written in a folder named `reproduced_results`.

Concerning the use case experiments, the images in the paper were assembled from layers with Gimp.
The code will reproduce the layers, not the composite images.
